---
title: "Szk szk"
pubDate: 2020-09-26
description: "Elo elo"
author: "Gienek Loska"
image:
  url: ""
  alt: "Jamstack for Clients Photo"
---

# Introduction

Nest (NestJS) is a framework for building efficient, scalable Node.js server-side applications. It uses progressive JavaScript, is built with and fully supports TypeScript (yet still enables developers to code in pure JavaScript) and combines elements of OOP (Object Oriented Programming), FP (Functional Programming), and FRP (Functional Reactive Programming).
Under the hood, Nest makes use of robust HTTP Server frameworks like Express (the default) and optionally can be configured to use Fastify as well!
Nest provides a level of abstraction above these common Node.js frameworks (Express/Fastify), but also exposes their APIs directly to the developer. This gives developers the freedom to use the myriad of third-party modules which are available for the underlying platform.

```astro
---
import NavBar from "../components/navBar.vue";
import Layout from "../layouts/Layout.astro";
const blogs = await Astro.glob("../pages/blog/*.md");
---

<Layout>
  <nav class="mx-8 my-4 relative">
    <a href="/" class="logo">Pu</a>
    <NavBar class="absolute right-0 top-5" />
  </nav>
  <section class="" id="blog-section">
    <div class="">
      <ul class="">
        {
          blogs.map((blog) => (
            <li>
              <article class="">
                <a href={blog.url} class="text-white">
                  Read more
                </a>
              </article>
            </li>
          ))
        }
      </ul>
    </div>
  </section>
</Layout>
```

## Installation

To get started, you can either scaffold the project with the Nest CLI, or clone a starter project (both will produce the same outcome).
To scaffold the project with the Nest CLI, run the following commands. This will create a new project directory, and populate the directory with the initial core Nest files and supporting modules, creating a conventional base structure for your project. Creating a new project with the Nest CLI is recommended for first-time users. We'll continue with this approach in First Steps.
